in this lesson we're going to look at
factors that affect cost if we look at
the skills that are being assessed we're
now diving into the last section
and we're going to go ahead and look at
the features around cost management and
service level agreements so we look at
factors that affect cost how we can
reduce cost
understanding the azure pricing
calculator and total cost of ownership
calculator and then the functionality
and usage of azure cost management
before in the last couple of lessons
we'll look about the details of service
level agreements and service life cycles
as you remember is all based around
consumption
i pay for the resources that i use but
the exact nature of that consumption
metering does vary by the type of
resource
so i can think about when i'm trying to
ascertain what affects my cost
often we're going to use multiple
different types of resource
and they have different attributes but
they're all going to build into well
what is it actually costing me
so obvious things like well just what is
the type of resource that i'm actually
using
a virtual machine a storage account a
database network egress
private endpoints machine learning
disks there's huge amounts of different
types of resource and there'll be
different types of cost associated with
them
now within that basic type of resource
well there might be different skus
of the resource type for example virtual
machines
there are all different series of
virtual machines if i'm a load balancer
there's basic and standard if i'm a
firewall well they're standard and
premium
so many of them have different skus
available and that's going to impact
that price
now within these things there might be
tiers
for example in storage we have different
types of tier we have performance we
have premium standard then there are
things like access tiers hot core
archive well they're all going to impact
the actual cost
also realize
most of the resources we create in a
specific location
i.e a specific region
and some costs will vary because
depending on where that region is well
there are costs surrounding the azure
data centers maybe internet costs are
more expensive so your network egress
would be more expensive as well so
you'll see that in how the costs are
structured
when i think about the exact nature of
the metering in azure that is going to
vary greatly so i can think about well
there are some meters
and those meters kind of spin and that's
how we accrue charges
now some of it is going to be based on
well does it exist i.e is it provisioned
something like a standard load balancer
or a public ip address if it exists
i'm paying for it
other ones might depend on well is it
running
i.e is it actually provisioned on the
azure fabric so like a virtual machine
just because it exists doesn't mean i'm
paying compute charges for it only if
it's actually running do i pay for it if
i deprovision it it still exists as a
resource but it's not scheduled on a
particular host i don't pay the compute
charge all i'd be paying for is any
disks that i need to keep because of
state
how many instances
this is a huge element when we think
about the cloud we have auto scale i'm
going to vary the number of instances i
have based on the load coming in and
react accordingly to try and optimize
that cost so i only have the number
running at any given second
based on what i actually need
now
instead of instances it could actually
be more about well what is the work
being done
that's really important when i think
about things like serverless
and that's why we like serverless with
serverless azure functions azure logic
apps
they're event driven something happens
so that work coming in that trigger
event makes it do the work and i pay for
the work that is being done only
it might be well
what's the amount of storage if it's
maybe a database if it's a storage
account maybe i'm paying for the amount
of data it's actually storing and that's
what i pay for
now
this will vary like a premium storage
account i don't pay for the amount of
storage that i'm using i pay for the
amount provisioned so realize this could
be based on the amount used
or it might be based on the amount
provisioned and that is going to vary by
the types it's important to understand
that when i use something like premium
azure files
because the performance is based on the
amount you provision
you get charged for the amount of space
provisioned not the amount you use so
it's always important to understand
exactly what you're paying for so you
don't get the surprise bills
then there might be interactions
interactions could be transactions
against that particular type of
resourcing there could also be things
like licensing
it could be the windows license could be
sql license could be some third-party
license if it's the azure marketplace
well there's licenses there as well
so the huge number of things that will
drive the overall cost so it's always
important to understand what are all of
the resources that make up my solution
understand what are the various
attributes that may impact cost like
skus like tears like sizes all of those
things i'll actually write that down to
remind you
locations
and then
they're going to build in different ways
so make sure you understand how it's
built so you can maybe optimize how you
use it to
only pay for what you really have to pay
for